Shell:
	 Basiclly the command line. 
	The terminal interface for an operating system.
	Allows the user to interact and execute programs in the
	computer. 
	
	sh	- shell
		older more basic command line interpreter
	bash	- bourne again shell	
		newer command line interpreter with more features. 


Kernel: 
	The core instance of an OS
	Actually communicates between the apps and the hardware. 
	Kernel is the very core of an operating system, it is
		what bridges the OS and the hardware. 
	It is a very low level program that interfaces with CPU, 
		RAM, HDD, etc. 



How to make your script into an executable!
	1) We use the shebang: #!/bin/bash
	2) Informing the computer that the script is an executable
		2)a) We provide an area for the computer to look for!
		2)b) Either we store it an existing area it looks for
		3)c) or we tell it to look somewhere else as well!
	3) We need to give everyone permission to interact with the file. 
		3 types of permission: 
			r: permission to read
			w: permmsiion to write 
			x: permission to execute
	To give permission we use chmod:
		chmod +x <script>.sh
	+x means that we are giving executable permission


Challenge before lunch: 
	1) Create an EC2 instance and connect to it. 
	2) Update your package manger and install Git. 
	3) Clone the repo from: https://gitlab.com/slackermedia/bashcrawl.git

	(prerequsite commands: ls, cat, cd)
	4) Get as far as you can in the dungeon before lunch!


Files vs Database:
	Why don't we store/persist data into files?
		files are designed to store unrelated, arbitry data. 
		It's difficult to search for data quickly, not 
			really good for concurrent operations either. 
		OR for file/data reliability.

Database: 
	Designed to store structured related data. 
	It is easier to manipulate and search for data. 
	A lot of other useful aspects, such as concurrent operations. 
	There are many types of databases, we will be focusing in
	particular on RDBS.

RDBS:
	Relational Database System
	The data is structured and can be related to each other. 
	There are many applications that support RDS, e.g.
		Oracle, MySql, PostgreSql, etc . 

All of these applications are based on SQL (Structured Query Language).

How to set up Postgresql on AWS EC2 or on AWS RDS. 

Why Postgresql? Because it is free for us. 



IaaS vs PaaS vs SaaS
	IaaS: Infrastructure as a service:
		While the hardware is managed by the Cloud platform, 
		we configure basically everything else. 
		The benefit of this is that it is the most configurable.
		(and typically the cheapest).
		EC2 is an example of a IaaS

	PaaS: Product as a service:
		This is a more managed resource. Example of this is the
		RDS (Relational Database System) that manages the DB and
		the hardware for us.

	SaaS: Software as a service:
		This is the "most" managed resource. Examples of these
		can be Pega or Salesforce or DropBox or Wix or SquareSpace.
	 