AWS?
	A cloud computing platform 
	Offers clients cloud computer/services, databases 
	Infrastructure, Platform and Software as a service. 

IaaS?
	Infrastructure (e.g. Compute instance, Storage) that you can rent and 
	access over the internet. 
	The ability to scale up and down as necessary. 
	Instead of having to house your own hardware and hire the personal. 
	You hire the infrastructure that are premade, house the resources you need. 
	(e.g. EC2, EBS )

PaaS?
	Inbetween IaaS and SaaS, where the resource is partially managed by AWS. 
	AWS will handle the hardware aspect of it, while providing some software 
	configurability.  
	(e.g. RDS, EKS) 

SaaS?
	Where both the infrastructure and software is managed by AWS. 
	(e.g. Google Drive, Dropbox, Salesforce, Pega)

EC2 ?
	Elastic Cloud Computing
	Have a server and a partion with an OS - you can connect to it. 
	You can do anything with it using a CLI tool. 
	When we create an EC2 we specify the hardware to be allocated and the AMI. 

AMI?
	Amazon Machine Image 
	An operating system will have preset settings.
	A template for the root volume of the instance (includes OS, an 
	application server and applications).
	Launch permissions that control which AWS accounts can use the AMI to 
	lauch instances. 
	Volume to be to attached to the instance when it's launched. 

EBS?
	Elastic Block Storage 
	Stores all the information on the EC2 or the EKS. It acts a storage volume 
	when attached to an EC2 and you can add a file system on top of these volumes. 
	EBS good for database-style applications that relon on random reads and writes
	and also for throughput-intensive applicaionts that perform long continous 
	reads and writes. 

RDS?
	Relational Database System
	We operate and scale database in the cloud. Amazon has support for multiple 
	flavors of RDS, e.g. Postgresql, Oracle, MySql, etc ...
	This is managed by Amazon, they'll provide a high level of durability, backups
	and other useful features.  
	Example of Platform as a service. 

S3?
	Simple Storage Service  
	Designed to handle large volumes of static files. It is durable (99.9999999999%),
	scalable (pay for what you use) and low cost compared to other storage solutions. 
	It's useful for backing up data and for any data that is infrequently accessed. 
	Example of PaaS. 

EKS ?
	Elastic Kubernetes Service is a managed Kubernetes cluster by Amazon. 
	It provisions Load Balancers, computer instances and pods (Application
	Container instances). We can configure the computer instances and the runtime
	conditions of our pods. 
	Also has support for deployment strategies as Kubernetes, we can use the 
	Kubernetes Cluster Autoscaler to scale the compute instances. 
	We can use the Kubernetes Horizontal or Vertical Pod autoscaler. 

	Cluster of computers, that can be scaled up or down to meet your needs. 
	USeful for container management tools, so that you can deploy your apps. 
	EC2 is a single instance, EKS it can be multiple instances to your preset limits.

VPC?
	Virtual Private Cloud, it's a virtual network that allows us to create a pool 
	of shared resources within a public cloud environvment. It provides isolation 
	between your differenet resource in an organization and also allow us to 
	define subnets. 

Subnet: 
	A subnet is a range of IP addresses in your VPC. Public subnets can expose your
	resources over the internet while private subnets will restrict traffic to 
	internal VPC traffic. Each subnet must reside entirely within one Availability 
	zone. By launching instances in seperate Availabiliy zone, we can protect our
	app from failutre. 

Availability: 
	The percentage of time that a workload/service is available for use. 
	Availability = Available for use time/ Total time 

	To measure availability : 
		Availability = successful responses/ Total requests 

	If a system is reliant on another system, i.e. hard dependencies. 
	Availability is calculated by measuring all systems availability and multilpling them. 
	
	Ava1 * Ava2 * Ava3 = Ava123

	Calculating with redundant components 

	Calculating dependency availability based on time between failure and time to recover
	(MTBF and MTTR) 
	